# Topic-Modeling-on-BBC-News-Articles
The objective of Topic Modeling on BBC News Articles is to identify and extract the hidden topics from a collection of News articles from BBC News, using Natural Language Processing(NLP) and Clustering techniques. The dataset consists of a folder of 2225 news articles separated by 5 different topics business, entertainment, politics, sports and technology. 

The dataset is then combined to generate an aggregate dataset of 2225 rows and 3 columns namely, index, News Article and Type. The description of this dataset showed that there are 2127 unique News Articles meaning 98 news articles are duplicates and they’ve been removed.

By initial explorations through the News articles and topics, it’s found that the topics business and sports have higher proportion of news articles than other topics in the corpus. Topic business has articles of shorter length and topics politics and entertainment have articles of longer length in terms of word-counts. Most articles in the collection are of lengths close to 500 word-counts.

Through even further explorations, the plot of 20 frequent unigrams(words) showed that the top 20 frequent words are actually stop-words and short-length words(words of lengths lesser than 3). So the cleaning of news articles includes removal of stop-words, short-length words and other unnecessary elements such as special characters, numbers, additional white-spaces and new line characters. Lemmatization is also performed to reduce each word to their root form so that they can be grouped together while modeling. The plots of 20 frequent unigrams, bigrams(two-word sequences), trigrams(three-word sequences) are plotted that highlight the clean dataset. 

Vectorization has been performed using TF-IDF vectorizer. Modeling has been done using clustering algorithms Latent Dirichlet Allocation(LDA) and Latent Semantic Analysis(LSA). Visualization for LDA, pyLDA plot and wordclouds for each topic indicated that LDA is able to identify 5 topics from news articles and cluster them into different topics quite clearly. The scatter plot of LSA sowed that LSA also discovered 5 topics but is not able to cluster news articles into respective topics as good as LDA. This can be verified from few of the irrelevant words present in wordclouds of some individual topics such as business and technology. Therefore, we conclude that LDA is the best clustering algorithm for Topic Modeling on BBC News Articles.

